Cost craft comms (#973)
meshcloud/meshcloud-docs: docs/meshcloud.chargeback-v2.md

---
id: meshstack.chargeback-v2
title: Chargeback 2.0 Key Changes and Limitations
---

## Overview

> This documentation provides an overview of the changes introduced with **Chargeback 2.0**, detailing the reasons for the update, key improvements, required actions, and limitations. The transition to Chargeback 2.0 will take effect by **the end of January 2024 (calendar week 4)**, with the January chargeback finalized under the new system.

Reviewer: d: it should be 2025 right?
```suggestion
This documentation provides an overview of the changes introduced with **Chargeback 2.0**, detailing the reasons for the update, key improvements, required actions, and limitations. The transition to Chargeback 2.0 will take effect by **the end of January 2025 (calendar week 4)**, with the January chargeback finalized under the new system.
```

> Please note that you can switch back to Chargeback 1.0 by navigating to the **Settings** and then the **Configuration** page. However, starting **March 1, 2025**, Chargeback 2.0 will become the default version, and the option to revert to Chargeback 1.0 will no longer be available.
> 

## Limitations of Chargeback 2.0

While Chargeback 2.0 significantly improves the transparency and accuracy of chargeback statements, there are a few limitations to consider:

### Cost Backward approach in meshstack UI

> As mentioned earlier, you can use the API to collect costs that changed after the finalization date and apply corrections to future periods. However, in the **meshStack UI**, we use the cost-backward approach, so chargebacks and TUPRs are updated for the original usage month. Late bills and other corrections are now reflected in the correct month, with their status updated, even after the chargeback statement is finalized.

Reviewer: d: I think we should stick to the [glossary](https://www.notion.so/meshcloud/Product-Glossary-and-Terminology-00dce982e47644d7a3603532ad438394), so we are consistent with our product terms

```suggestion
As mentioned earlier, you can use the API to collect costs that changed after the finalization date and apply corrections to future periods. However, in the panel, we use the cost-backward approach, so chargebacks and TUPRs are updated for the original usage month. Late bills and other corrections are now reflected in the correct month, with their status updated, even after the chargeback statement is finalized.
```
